Wireshark has various plugins that can aid in filtering of the packets. 

---

#### Following TCP Streams

Wireshark can stitch TCP packets back together to recreate the entire stream in a readable format. This ability also allows us to pull data (`images, files, etc.`) out of the capture. This works for almost any protocol that utilizes TCP as a transport mechanism.

To utilize this feature:

- right-click on a packet from the stream we wish to recreate.
- select follow → TCP
- this will open a new window with the stream stitched back together. From here, we can see the entire conversation.

---
#### Extracting Data and Files From a Capture

To extract files from a stream:

- stop your capture.
- Select the File radial → Export → , then select the protocol format to extract from.
- (DICOM, HTTP, SMB, etc.)

Another exciting way to grab data out of the pcap file comes from FTP, a protocol that allows for transfer of files between a server and host

It uses 2 ports : `20 - transfer data` and `21 - FT- control port to send commands`


 The basic steps to dissect FTP data from a pcap are as follows:

1. Identify any FTP traffic using the `ftp` display filter.
2. Look at the command controls sent between the server and hosts to determine if anything was transferred and who did so with the `ftp.request.command` filter.
3. Choose a file, then filter for `ftp-data`. Select a packet that corresponds with our file of interest and follow the TCP stream that correlates to it.
4. Once done, Change "`Show and save data as`" to "`Raw`" and save the content as the original file name.
5. Validate the extraction by checking the file type.


---

## Q/A

1. Which plugin tab can provide us with a way to view conversation metadata and even protocol breakdowns for the entire PCAP file?

```
Statistics
```

2. What plugin tab will allow me to accomplish tasks such as applying filters, following streams, and viewing expert info?

```
Analyze
```

3. What stream oriented Transport protocol enables us to follow and rebuild conversations and the included data?

```
TCP
```

4. True or False: Wireshark can extract files from HTTP traffic.

```
True
```

5. True or False: The ftp-data filter will show us any data sent over TCP port 21.

```
False
```

---

